---
layout: post
date: 2007-10-04
category:  Writing 
tags: [Green, Home, Energy Star]
via: http://www.energystar.gov
source: EnergyStar
subtitle: An Energy Star, that is. 
title: Be a Star
---


Did you know that in 2006, Americans saved over $14 billion and reduced carbon emissions equivalent to taking 25 million cars off the road?

And, we did it all without changing the way we live. If you're up for a kitchen, bath, media room, or any other type of remodel, be sure to use Energy Star appliances and materials.

The Energy Star program is a series of guidelines and requirements that enable manufacturers to produce products that have less of an impact on the planet. The Energy Star logo started appearing in 1992 on appliances that manufacturers voluntarily modified to meet the efficiency standards of the Energy Star program.

The Energy Star first appeared on computers and computer monitors that would shut themselves off after a period of inactivity. Soon after, refrigerators and water heaters (the most energy inefficient devices in any home) began to meet the strict requirements of the program. Currently, you can actually purchase an Energy Star rated home. That's right. An entire house certified. All the appliances, all the building materials, all the insulation, windows, doors, HVAC systems, and electronics.

And it's bigger than that. Think city wide. Some municipalities are jumping on the Energy Star bandwagon, changing traffic lights and streetlights from incandescent to super-bright, low energy LEDs; low emission vehicles for official business, fluorescent lighting, and power management systems for computer networks.

Everyone can do a little, and that will do a lot.
